---
id: advanced-guides-custom-server
title: Running Bottender with Custom Servers
original_id: advanced-guides-custom-server
---

## The Concept

`bottender dev` and `bottender start` are the default npm scripts generated by [create-bottender-app](getting-started.md#create-a-new-bottender-app).

Thus, You can find those lines in your generated `package.json`:

```
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "bottender dev",
    "start": "bottender start",
```

When executing one of `bottender dev` or `bottender start` command, under the hood, it sets up a default express server for Bottender and load `index.js` from the project root directory as the root action of the chatbot.

To run Bottender with the custom HTTP server, you need to prepare an HTTP server, delegate the webhook routes to Bottender, and modify the setting of `package.json`.

## Express

### Creating a New Project with Custom Express Server

If you want to have a clean project with the custom express, you could start from [this example](https://github.com/Yoctol/bottender/tree/master/examples/custom-server-express) to develop your project. There are four steps you could follow to create your project:

1. Download the code from [this example](https://github.com/Yoctol/bottender/tree/master/examples/custom-server-express).
2. Run `yarn` or `npm install` command to install all dependencies.
3. Fill the `.env` file with correct value.
4. Run `yarn dev` or `npm run dev` to start the dev server.

If you want to have the folder structure we recommend, you could start with [create-bottender-app](getting-started.md#create-a-new-bottender-app) command and migrate it to the custom express server by following the migration instructions below.

### Migrating an Existing Project to Custom Express Server

Suppose that you already have a project built from [create-bottender-app](getting-started.md#create-a-new-bottender-app), and you want to develop some additional APIs using express server. In this case, you need to write a custom express server and delegate all chatbot's webhook requests to the Bottender app.

To achieve that, you could follow the instructions, as shown below:

1. Run `yarn add exp